mkdir sleecvecapease
mkdir sleevecapbackfactorx
mkdir sleevecapbackfactory
mkdir sleevecapfrontfactorx
mkdir sleevecapfrontfactory
mkdir sleevecapheightfactor
mkdir sleevecapq1offset
mkdir sleevecapq1spread1
mkdir sleevecapq1spread2
mkdir sleevecapq2offset
mkdir sleevecapq2spread1
mkdir sleevecapq2spread2
mkdir sleevecapq3offset
mkdir sleevecapq3spread1
mkdir sleevecapq3spread2
mkdir sleevecapq4offset
mkdir sleevecapq4spread1
mkdir sleevecapq4spread2
mkdir sleevecapspread.svg
mkdir sleevecaptopfactorx
mkdir sleevecaptopfactory
mkdir sleevelengthbonus
