When I was designing my (in progress) Tina top, I originally was basing the
pattern on Teagan and Brian. However, Tina is supposed to work for people with
breasts and Brian is mostly designed for menswear and doesn't support much body
and bust fitting. So I created Bibi as a base for Tina.

For Bibi, I reused code from Brian mostly for the sleevecap and armhole
construction and added a basic front bust adjustment. Because Bibi is supposed
to be usable for very different lengths, I also changed the sideline
calculation to fit to the waist and seat measurements and added a sleeveless
option. After some fine-tuning, this is basically the result.

While Bibi was specifically made to support people with breasts, it also works
fine as a base for unisex clothes or t-shirts.

Essentially, Bibi _is_ just a simple T-shirt/A-shirt pattern that tries to fit
the body on default settings. You can use it as alternative to Brian to Teagan
for creating your own designs, especially if you need some basic bust support.

However, it's also important to talk about what Bibi is not:

Bibi can definitely be sewn as a simple top or dress, but it's mainly designed
as a building block for other patterns or your custom designs.

Bibi is highly customizable, but it does not necessarily represent a specific
garment or follow a specific style. Some option combinations might not make
much sense, and you may have to experiment with different options yourself to
find the design you're looking for.

You can make Bibi as short as a sports bra, or as long as a dress, but that
doesn't mean that Bibi creates a good bra or dress as is. A sports bra
probably needs more darts and lots of negative ease, and if you just make it
dress-length, it will probably look like a sack.

Additionally, when you make a dress with Bibi out of woven fabric, you'll have
to ensure yourself that there is enough room for leg movement. Depending on
the shape around the waist or the size of the neck hole, you also may have to
add buttons or zippers on the front or back so you can actually put it on.

Bibi is also not a standard block/sloper for woven fabric. It only does a very
basic front bust adjustment designed for stretchy knit fabric and will not work
well as a base for fitted shirts and blouses from woven fabric. You'll also
need to increase ease settings when working with non-stretchy fabric.

The name Bibi is a little joke and comes from _Bibi und Tina_, a German audio
play for children, where 13-year-old witch _Bibi Blocksberg_ is a companion of
_Tina_. So it kinda makes sense.

Jonathan
