markdown/dev/training/git/video/en.md, before:

---
title: Git training - Video Series
---

These are git training materials for people who would like to understand how
git works rather than try to memorize all of its commands without knowing what
they do.

It is divided into 45 chapters. You can watch them back-to back, or pick out a
specific topic you are interested in.

This training does not cover everything there is to know about git.  Instead,
it aims to make you familiar with git in a way that will give you the
confidence to explore further on your own.

<Note>

This is the **video series** format.

This training is also available as a **[long read][text]** (20k 
words) or **[audiobook][audio]**.

</Note>

<iframe class="w-full aspect-[16/9]" 
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PL1gv5yv3DoZNIPVAlZRGPEB0fBvflO-xN"
  frameBorder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" 
  allowfullscreen
/>

[text]: /training/git/
[audio]: /training/git/audio/

Commit message:

fix(docs): (git-training) Remove trailing spaces and lines; add video runtime

markdown/dev/training/git/video/en.md, after:

---
title: Git training - Video Series
---

These are git training materials for people who would like to understand how
git works rather than try to memorize all of its commands without knowing what
they do.

It is divided into 45 chapters. You can watch them back-to back, or pick out a
specific topic you are interested in.

This training does not cover everything there is to know about git.  Instead,
it aims to make you familiar with git in a way that will give you the
confidence to explore further on your own.

<Note>

This is the **video series** format, with an approximate total runtime of 01:43:17.

This training is also available as a **[long read][text]** (20k
words) or **[audiobook][audio]**.

</Note>

<iframe class="w-full aspect-[16/9]"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PL1gv5yv3DoZNIPVAlZRGPEB0fBvflO-xN"
  frameBorder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
  allowfullscreen
/>

[text]: /training/git/
[audio]: /training/git/audio/
