Walburga is the odd one out of the three patterns, because it still is
"historically inspired", but does not actually follow any real historical
garment. It is based on tabards ("Wappenrock" in German, hence the name
starting with a W), handwavingly placed in a western European middle ages
setting. To be honest, it is inspired more by the Legend of Zelda than anything
real.

I created this pattern because I needed something for my TTRPG character,
basically a fantasy Roman, to display his heraldics on, and since I could not
find anything in the literature about Romans doing this in a reliably
documented way, I went the "it's all fantasy anyway"-route. (And I had a weird
fascination with tabards as a kid, so it was a natural fit.)

Coding-wise, I spend some time on it because I wanted the triangular
terminations to look _just right_, so I fiddled with the golden ratio to ensure
it looked nice, no matter what the size.

The name comes from me thinking about vaguely mediaeval names starting with W,
and somehow `walburga` popped into my head.

Rika

:::tip Related
Lunetius, Tiberius and Walburga really come as a set. Not only were they born
at the same time, they are designed to work together to form a full outfit. Not
that this means that they can't be made separately :wink:

See also: [Lunetius Designer Notes](/docs/designs/lunetius#notes) and [Tiberius
Designer Notes](/docs/designs/tiberius#notes).
:::

:::note On Historical Accuracy

The further we go back in time, the less extant garments we have to base
research on. Often there may be scraps of fabric left behind by stroke of luck
but most of our information starts to come from (in archaeology) secondary
sources like written texts from contemporaries.

This is especially true for the Roman and Mediaeval eras, not to mention that a
lot of the available research is behind a paywall.

We can’t be 100 percent historically accurate, because we’re living in a
different time, and everything we use to sew is different now from before. Even
fabric is woven in a different way.

How ‘accurate’ you want to be is up to you, there is no wrong way to do this
and research is not required -- though it can be fun!
:::
